Install
=======

This finite element framework is based on PETSc_. You will need to
download and install this library to use PetIGA. 

PETSc
-----

PetIGA works with the release of PETSc as well as PETSc-dev. For the
most recent release of PETSc, download the compressed tar file from
`this <http://www.mcs.anl.gov/petsc/download/index.html>`_ page. You
may also use the development version of PETSc which can be downloaded
using `mercurial <http://selenic.com/mercurial>`_ and the following
commands::

      hg clone http://petsc.cs.iit.edu/petsc/petsc-dev
      cd petsc-dev/config
      hg clone http://petsc.cs.iit.edu/petsc/BuildSystem BuildSystem

In either case, once you have the library downloaded, enter this
directory and type::

      ./configure
Once the configure is complete, the output from the script will guide
you in how to finish compiling the library. At this point, note the
values that PETSc assigns to 2 environment variables: PETSC_DIR and
PETSC_ARCH. We suggest exporting these variables in your .bashrc file
such that they are always set in your environment. PetIGA will depend
on these variables being set properly. For troubleshooting the
configuring and compilation of PETSc, please refer to their `page
<http://www.mcs.anl.gov/petsc/documentation/installation.html>`_ on
the topic.

PetIGA
------

To compile PetIGA, simply enter into the top level directory and type
'make'. PetIGA will compile a library based on the values of PETSC_DIR
and PETSC_ARCH. That is, if PETSC_ARCH points to a version of PETSc
with debug flags, then PetIGA will be compiled with debug flags. To
ensure that the installation is correct, you can then type 'make
test'. PetIGA, like PETSc, uses an environment variable to point to
the location of the library, PETIGA_DIR. I recommend adding this
variable to your .bashrc file as well.

.. _PETSc: http://www.mcs.anl.gov/petsc/


.. Local Variables:
.. mode: rst
.. End:
